we're near at water between Atwater
Merced this is real sandy soil and this
is a typical area for bacterial canker
looking at this tree you can see that it
did not push out from this following
spring and this is a game characteristic
of general collapse of a first leaf tree
but in the soil the sandy soil we tend
to have issues with an ring nematode
which predisposes the trees the
bacterial canker bacterial canker is
caused by the invasion of the host
tissues by Pseudomonas syringae it's a
natural bacteria that's found all over
the surface of the plant and when the
tree is stressed and in some cases where
there's cold snaps this bacteria can
invade the trees tissues and cause death
of the tissue and this results in this
tissue has been invaded by the bacteria
which is it caused killed the tissue and
this what we call flaking is very
characteristic of bacterial canker
disease we typically use this as well as
the occurrence of irregular large
irregular shaped cankers that are found
on a tree for diagnosing of this disease
we also will then correspond this and we
you know asked to have you guys take a
nematode sample use a nematode sample to
determine if ring nematode was actually
present and if that's the case it's
present a high number we're seeing as
flex we'd come to the conclusion of
bacterial canker canker you can see this
is the top part although this it's a
little bit of a hot day so the tissue
Browns pretty quick but what you can see
is as you cut into the tree you have the
green tissue and then you have this
darkened sunken lesion this is the
canker what we're referring to when we
talk about a canker and this canker
margin is the the margin between the
healthy the green tissue and the brown
tissue this irregular shaped canker what
we tend to see if bacterial canker is
again kind of a symptom of this disease
and it tends to occur frequently as in
the sand again in these sandy soils on
almond especially rootstocks that are
peach almond hybrids so there are
parentage is usually nem Agard peach
cross with an almond
they tend to harbor large populations of
the ring nematode and the nematode also
reproduces much quickly on those root
stocks which then feed on the root
system stressing the tree increasing the
occurrence of this disease although
we're in late May we're looking at these
symptoms usually these symptoms will
appear as the tree pushes out so this
tree has been dead and struggling for a
while as these trees age and when the
disease occurs you tend to get a sweet
sour or Swedish sour smell they call it
sour SAP and that's also again very
characteristic of being trees affected
with bacterial canker